Refactor the Slash Command topic (#1108)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/archive/slash-commands/_index.md

---
title: "Slash commands"
heading: "Slash commands at Mattermost"
description: "Slash commands trigger an HTTP request to a web service that can in turn post one or more messages in response."
date: "2017-08-19T12:01:23-04:00"
weight: 30
aliases:
  - /integrate/other-integrations/slash-commands/
---

Slash commands are messages that begin with `/` and trigger an HTTP request to a web service that can in turn post one or more messages in response.

> Unlike outgoing webhooks, slash commands work in private channels and direct messages in addition to public channels, and can be configured to auto-complete when typing. Note that while Mattermost includes a number of built-in slash commands, this document concerns itself only with the slash commands that can be configured as custom integrations.

Reviewer: > slash commands support group messages too?

Yes, if you go to a group DM in the community server and start typing a slash command, you'll see several are supported.

text=asd&
token=nezum4kpu3faiec7r7c5zt6tfy&
trigger_id=NG1kM3lyN2NqYmQxcGNyc2s0Nmo5em0xb2M6azF4NGFxZGp5MzgxM2M4NG03NzFlb2M5eG86MTU1MTIwODE5NTQyNzpNRVVDSUhSdWFrdmVGZ0RhTTd6UERoMWVEVndZK2NGbXlSYUxWQ054SVRLZGdxTWZBaUVBeGQvOU95NTFOeWxiTWVsRE1ZK0d4S2FzL2Z1TUU2Y0J1bW5JbFBCOXVEVT0%3D&
user_id=k1x4aqdjy3813c84m771eoc9xo&
user_name=tester
```

As evidenced by the `Content-Type`, this is a typical `form-urlencoded` payload similar to what you would receive from a `<form method="POST">` element on an HTML web page.

Upon receiving one of these requests, your integration should immediately confirm that the `token` provided in the request body matches the one given to you after the slash command was created. If it does not match, it is strongly recommended that you reject the request. This ensures that the request actually came from Mattermost.

Once the request is verified, you can emit a message in the channel where the slash command was invoked by responding with a 200 status code and including a response body as follows:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 59

{"text": "Hello, this is a response from a slash command."}
```

> Be sure to set the `Content-Type` to `application/json` otherwise your response will be displayed as plaintext.

Reviewer: In computer science, "plaintext" is specifically unencrypted text. By not setting the content type, the payload will have no content type and just be an ASCII string, which is called "plain text".

I think we should say "plain text" because we are not talking about encrypting anything.

    "username": "test-automation",
    "icon_url": "https://www.mattermost.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/icon.png",
    "props": {
        "test_data": {
            "ios": 78,
            "server": 948,
            "web": 123
        }
    },
    "extra_responses": [
       {
         "text": "message 2",
         "username": "test-automation"
       },
       {
         "text": "message 3",
         "username": "test-automation"
       }
     ]
}
```

### What if my slash command takes time to build a response?

Reply immediately with an `ephemeral` message to confirm response of the command, and then use the `response_url` to send up to five additional messages within a 30-minute time period from the original command invocation.

### Why does my slash command fail to connect to `localhost`?

By default, Mattermost prohibits outgoing connections that resolve to certain common IP ranges, including the loopback (`127.0.0.0/8`) and various private-use subnets.

> During development, you may override this behaviour by setting `ServiceSettings.AllowedUntrustedInternalConnections` to `"127.0.0.0/8"` in your `config.json` or via System Console **Advanced > Developer**. See the [admin guide's notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#allow-untrusted-internal-connections-to) for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During development, you may override this behaviour by setting `ServiceSettings.AllowedUntrustedInternalConnections` to `"127.0.0.0/8"` in your `config.json` or via System Console **Advanced > Developer**. See the [Mattermost configuration settings](https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#allow-untrusted-internal-connections-to) documentation for more details.
```

Ultimately, however, the choice is yours. If in doubt, configure your slash command to use a `POST` request.

<div class="alert alert-warning" role="alert">
Note that slash commands configured to use a <code>GET</code> request were broken prior to Mattermost release 5.0.0. The payload was incorrectly encoded in the body of the <code>GET</code> request instead of in the query string. While it was still technically possible to extract the payload, this was non-standard and broke some development stacks.
</div>

### Why does my slash command always fail with `returned an empty response`?

If you are emitting the `Content-Type: application/json` header, your body must be valid JSON. Any JSON decoding failure will result in this error message.

Also, you must provide a `response_type`. Mattermost does not assume a default if this field is missing.

### Why does my slash command print the JSON data instead of formatting it?

Ensure you are emitting the `Content-Type: application/json` header, otherwise your body will be treated as plain text and posted as such.

### Are slash commands Slack-compatible?

> See the [admin guide's notes on Slack compatibility](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/slash-commands.html#slack-compatibility).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [Slack compatibility](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/slash-commands.html#slack-compatibility) documentation for details.
```
